---
title: "Pragmatic Query Reformulation in Heterogeneous Knowledge Graphs"
collection: talks
type: "Talk"
permalink: /talks/2015-22-08-talk-1
venue: "IBM TJ Watson Research Center"
date: 2015-08-22
location: "Yorktown Heights, NY"
---

Knowledge graphs, one of the key components in the Semantic
Web, are fast becoming indispensable in research for storing and
retrieving information effectively. The ease of linking heterogeneous
data coupled with the expressiveness to make inferences and the
ability to find new knowledge without additional human has made them
an invaluable resource for information intensive domains. Today
researchers use a rich set of tools including NELL[1], YAGO[2], and
DBpedia[3] to augment their information extraction work. However,
access to readily consumable knowledge in such diverse and expressive
KGs is still challenging. The rich schema is not expressed in a more
intuitive and obvious way to the naive user. This results in a
mismatch between the user's needs and the exposed knowledge; user
intent does not always get translated to the right query
interpretation to get accurate results.

Our work focuses on making KGs accessible for querying by using the
Gricean maxim of cooperative answering[4] as a motivating foundation.
More specifically, using query reformulations[5], data awareness, and
pragmatic context, KGs can be made more responsive to user
requirements and provide quality results in context. As a first step,
we have developed a novel "pragmatic data aware query reformulation"
that provides a constrained set of quality queries that augment the
user's imprecise query. We discuss the results for the same and argue
that such queries help in providing a better interaction with the
user.


BACKGROUND AND FURTHER READING:

[1] "NELL: The Computer that Learns." http://bit.ly/1jhNCZs

[2] "YAGO: A High-Quality Knowledge Base." http://bit.ly/1jhNOIb

[3] "DBpedia: A Large-scale, Multilingual Knowledge Base Extracted
from Wikipedia." http://bit.ly/1jhNU2G

[4] "Make your contribution such as it is required, at the stage at
which it occurs, by the accepted purpose or direction of the talk
exchange in which you are engaged." See e.g. Grice, Paul (1975).
"Logic and conversation". In Cole, P.; Morgan, J. Syntax and
semantics. 3: Speech acts. New York: Academic Press. pp. 41–58.

[5] "Analyzing and Evaluating Query Reformulation Strategies in Web
Search Logs." http://bit.ly/1jhOb5L
