---
title: "Pragmatic Query Reformulation and Answer Generation in Knowledge Graphs"
collection: talks
type: "Poster Session"
permalink: /talks/2015-11-09-talk-2
venue: "RPI"
date: 2013-09-11
location: "Troy NY, USA"
---

Knowledge Graphs, one of the key components in the Semantic Web, are fast becoming indispensable in research for storing and retrieving information effectively. The ease of linking heterogeneous data coupled with the (a) expressiveness to make inferences; and (b) finding new knowledge without additional human has made them an invaluable resource for information intensive domains. Today researchers use a plethora of tools like NELL, YAGO, DBpedia to augment their information extraction work. However, access to readily consumable knowledge in such diverse and expressive KGs is still challenging. The rich schema is not expressed in a more intuitive and obvious way to the naive user. This results in a mismatch between the user's needs and the exposed knowledge - i.e. user intent does not always get translated to the right query interpretation to get accurate results. This work focuses on making KGs accessible for querying by using the Gricean maxim of Cooperative Answering as a motivating foundation. More specifically, using  Query Reformulations, Data Awareness, and Pragmatic Context, KGs can be made more responsive to user requirements and provide quality results in context. As a first step, we have worked on a novel Pragmatic Data Aware Query Reformulation that provides a constrained set of quality queries that augment the user's imprecise query. We discuss the results for the same and argue that such queries help in providing a better interaction with the user.
